Title: Hosting Django under different locations with Nginx and gunicorn
Date: 2011-09-15 16:40
Slug: hosting-django-under-different-locations
Category: Writing

<p>Do you know how Django uses SCRIPT_NAME?</p>
<p>It's not often I host different instances of Django under different locations on the same domain. One legacy install has been setup that way for over a year with Apache2 and mod_wsgi (with Nginx infront). Almost all of my new deployments use virtual hosts with different subdomains for each service.</p>
<p>If you are using virtual hosts with Nginx it looks like this:</p>
<pre>
server {
    listen   80;
    server_name  service.albertoconnor.ca;

    # other settings

    location / {
        try_files $uri/index.html $uri.html $uri @cluster;
    }

    location @cluster {
        proxy_pass http://service.albertoconnor.ca;
    }
}
</pre>
<p>Assuming you have defined an upstream server cluster called "service.albertoconnor.ca".</p>
<p>If you are doing something by location on the same domain it might look something more like this:</p>
<pre>
server {
    listen   80;
    server_name  _;

    # other settings...

    location /a/ {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8001/;
    }

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8080/;
        proxy_redirect off;
    }
}
</pre>
<p>The idea is that something else, let's say Apache2, is running on 127.0.0.1:8080, and Django being served by gunicorn is running on 127.0.0.1:8001. So under /a/ the pages will be generated by Django; anywhere else Apache2 takes over.</p>
<p>If you try this though, things will go horribly wrong. Besides redirects not working because you need some proxy_redirect mojo, your generated links in your templates won't work. They will generate absolute urls like "/foo/bar" instead of "/a/foo/bar". But really how should {% url %} know any better.</p>
<p>Then I got that feeling. You know when you figure out why something doesn't work, but because of that reason you can't explain why other things ever worked in the first place. I have been successfully serving different Django services based on location with Apache2 and mod_wsgi for over a year. How, when I generate urls, could it know to prepend the location?</p>
<p>The answer is that mod_wsgi WSGIScriptAlias command was helping me. Django will actually do the magic prepend for url generation if the SCRIPT_NAME variable is set in the wsgi environment. mod_python also does this by the django.root PythonOption. The SCRIPT_NAME variable is mentioned in the gunicorn FAQ very <a href="http://gunicorn.org/faq.html">briefly</a> and without context.</p>
<p>From the FAQ and other hints around the internet I gathered that I really just need to set the header SCRIPT_NAME HTTP header myself and things will start working. Since the SCRIPT_NAME is also taken off of incoming urls I had to alter my proxy_pass a bit. Here is what I ended up with:</p>
<pre>
    # ...
    location /a/ {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8001/a/;
        proxy_redirect http://127.0.0.1:8001/a/ http://$host/a/;
        proxy_set_header SCRIPT_NAME /a;
    }

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8080/;
        proxy_redirect off;
    }
    # ...
</pre>
<p>I also needed a slightly different proxy_redirect directive than the default. This may not be ideal so suggestions are welcome. I will apply them to this post. You can comment or contact me though this website.</p>
<p><strong>Update Oct 26th, 2011</strong></p>
<p>When using CAS with services I discovered the redirection url has the internal host IP rather than the proxy host name. One way to fix it is to use the X_Forwarded_Host header. In the /a/ block add:</p>
<pre>
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Host your.host.name.com;
</pre>
<p>Internally Django has a HttpRequest.get_host method that if the setting USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST is True will use the value of the HTTP-X-FORWARDED-HOST header as the current request's host.</p>
<pre>
USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST = True
</pre>
<p><strong>NOTE:</strong> The setting is new as of Django 1.3.1 and it is worth reading <a href="https://www.djangoproject.com/weblog/2011/sep/09/security-releases-issued/">security advisory</a>, see the section headed "Host header cache poisoning". The up shot of which is in this case seems to be to filter on your specific host and not "server _;" as I did in my example above to avoid a security hole.</p>
